README.md, before:

# Pagination

## Offset

Offset pagination relies on a seek and limit number.

Consider the resource we are paginating is:

```ts
['A', 'B', 'C', 'D']
```

The seek index starts at 0.

The limit is the desired length of the returned pagination view.

A seek and limit of `[0, 2]` would return `['A', 'B']`.

Page numbers start from 1. However we refer to them with a page index that starts at 0.

The total represents the total number of items when the pagination was fetched. The true total of items may have changed on the server side since fetching a pagination.

## Cursor

Cursor pagination relies on unique orderable seek key.

Consider the resource we are paginating is:

```ts
['A', 'B', 'C', 'D']
```

Assume that the seek key is `[0, 1, 2, 3]`:

* Using `order = true`, `seek = 0` and `limit = 2`, you would get `['B', 'C']`.
* Using `order = false`, `seek = 2` and `limit = 2`, you would get `['A', 'B']`.
* Using `order = null`, `seekAfter = 1`, `seekBefore = 3`, you would get `['C']`.

Cursor pagination does not allow random access of the pages. You can however randomly access if you know the seek key you want.

## Development

```sh
type='patch'
npm run build
npm version $type
npm publish
```

Commit message:

Aligning with TypeScript-Demo-Lib and Enable Optional Parameters and Redesign of the API

README.md, after:

# Pagination

## Offset

Offset pagination relies on a seek and limit number.

Consider the resource we are paginating is:

```ts
['A', 'B', 'C', 'D']
```

The seek index starts at 0 and it is inclusive.

The limit is the desired length of the returned pagination view.

A seek and limit of `[0, 2]` would return `['A', 'B']`.

Page numbers start from 1. However we refer to them with a page index that starts at 0.

The total represents the total number of items when the pagination was fetched. The true total of items may have changed on the server side since fetching a pagination.

## Cursor

Cursor pagination relies on unique orderable seek key.

Consider the resource we are paginating is:

```ts
['A', 'B', 'C', 'D']
```

Assume that the seek key is `[0, 1, 2, 3]`:

* Using `order = true`, `seek = 0` and `limit = 2`, you would get `['B', 'C']`.
* Using `order = false`, `seek = 2` and `limit = 2`, you would get `['A', 'B']`.
* Using `order = null`, `seekAfter = 1`, `seekBefore = 3`, you would get `['C']`.

Notice that the `seek`, `seekStart` and `seekEnd` are all exclusive. This is required so that paging doesn't show results that overlap with existing results. This is because the next or previous page is fetched by using the seek key of the first or last item.

Therefore to get the `['A']`, you would need to seek with `0 - 1`. Or at least some way of subtracting the seek key.

Valid seek keys include integers and dates.

There can be an extra parameter called `sort` that would sort the results according the seek key in descending or ascending manner. Here we assume ascending sort. This is however not a concern of pagination, but a concern of how results should be displayed. Therefore the `order` parameter controls the order of the seek, but not the order of the results.

Cursor pagination does not allow random access of the pages. You can however randomly access if you know the seek key you want.

## Development

```sh
type='patch'
npm run build
npm version $type
npm publish
```
